## Cryptographic Attacks
---
If time has taught us anything, it is that people frequently do things that other people thought were impossible.

#### Brute Force 
---
Bruteforcing every possible key. It is guaranteed to work, but it is likely to take so long that it is not usable.
#### Frequency Analysis
---
Frequency analysis involves looking at the blocks of an encrypted message to determine if any common patterns exist.

#### Known plain text 
---
This attack relies on the attacker having pairs of known **plain text** along with the **corresponding ciphertext.**

#### Chosen plain text 
---
attacker can encrypt plaintexts of their choice and observe ciphertexts.

#### Related key attack 
---
This is like a chosen plain-text attack, except the attacker can obtain ciphertexts encrypted under two different keys.

#### Birthday attack 
---
This is an attack on cryptographic hashes, based on something called the birthday theorem.

#### Downgrade attack
---
A downgrade attack is sometimes used against secure communications such as TLS in an attempt to get the user or system to inadvertently shift to less secure cryptographic modes

#### Hashing, Salting, and Key Stretching
---
- **Rainbow table** : attacks attempt to reverse hashed password values by precomputing the hashes of common passwords.
- **salting** :  adds a randomly generated value to each password prior to hashing.
- **Key stretching** is used to create encryption keys from passwords in a strong manner
	- Password- Based Key Derivation Function
		- use thousands of iterations of salting and hashing to generate encryption keys that are

#### Exploiting weak keys 
---
Using WEP : Wireless Equivalent Privacy
This protocol uses a improper implementation of the RC4 encryption algorithm and has significant security vulnerabilities.


### Exploiting Human errors
---
**Common Mistakes**

- Sending same message both encrypted and unencrypted gives cryptanalysts plaintext–ciphertext pairs, easing decryption of future messages.
- Mismanaging or leaking keys exposes cryptosystem structure and secrets.
- Accidental leaks or repeated data in both plaintext and ciphertext can compromise systems.

**Weak or Deprecated Algorithms**

- Use of outdated algorithms weakens encryption over time.
- Algorithms may become insecure due to:
    - Discovered design flaws.        
    - Increased computing power reducing key strength.


